we're talking with dr. Robert Abel jr.
an ophthalmologist we're talking about
eye care and we're talking about lutein
we've talked about macular degeneration
and lutein what about the rest of the
eye doctor Agel are you right lutein is
found in high levels and conjunctiva the
iris the ciliary body which makes the
fluid that flows in the eye in the
retina and then the layers even deeper
than the retina that supplied
nourishment protection to the retina the
lens of the eye is a crystalline lens
okay and if we were to open an eye and
take a look the lens of the eye looks
like a lens it's like a fingernail
there's no blood supply and no nerves so
it's constantly passing light through
and absorbing light and some of the
wavelengths it absorbs are the UV and
the blue wavelengths to protect the eye
from the retinal burn from the burn from
the sunlight turns out a study from
Harvard showed that those who take high
levels of lutein are protected to a
certain degree from cataract formation
I'm having lutein in the lens and
absorbing some of those damaging
wavelengths otherwise what happens is
the lens which is high protein starts
breaking down and denaturation
being clumped and turning yellow and
therefore blurring the vision so the
lens of the eye as well as other tissues
have high levels of free lutein in it
and it's important to keep them supplied
so we're not only talking about macular
degeneration before but the entire eye
needs it as does the skin the skin is
very similar to the eye in the sense it
has pigmented cells in it like the color
of the eye and the color of the back of
the eye beneath the yellow retina and it
absorbs sunlight and UV UV is damaging
although it's stimulating to a certain
degree and that the free lutein in the
skin is very important for protecting it
and lutein is one of the few nutrients
that have been shown in scientific
studies to actually reduce the chances
of having
in cancer so you're talking about the
eye we're talking about the skin and as
research goes on and more of these
long-term studies show it's going to
show them other diseases that it's going
to be helpful so the lutein is deposited
in the skin as more than just meets the
eye
correct how more than just meets the eye
all right thank you doctor